Have you ever thought to yourself, have I gone so far that there's no way back?
Am I too far gone in my doubts?
Am I too far gone in my addiction?
Am I too far gone in my mess?
Am I too deep in that hole?
Have I been too far away from God for too long?
Is there any way back?
Maybe you've not asked yourself that question about you, but about someone that you know and love.
is my son, is my daughter, are they too far away?
Is there any way they can come back that have been gone so long?
They're in a hole so deep.
And sometimes in these moments we can get very discouraged, but we're gonna see today David, who has been in a very deep hole, far away from all the things that God has for him.
And now he's outside of the city, his capital city, he's off his throne, he's away from his people, the people have rebelled against him.
He's all the way over here.
And we're gonna see the power of this long walk
He is going to be restored to his kingdom.
He's going to be restored to his palace.
And this should give us great hope that no matter how far away you feel, no matter how far away you are, God always provides a way back home.
Aren't you grateful for a God like that who always has open arms for his people?
Now, how many of you are familiar with this?
One of the favorite things to have in my hand is remote control because I can fast forward through commercials and I can scan all the things that I want to see and do.
And there's a key function to every remote control.
If you have a DVR, it's the rewind button.
How many of you know that life doesn't have a rewind button?
That you can't go back and undo something that you said or something that you did.
And this can be deeply discouraging because, well, in this moment,
I'm sure David is thinking, all of this mess that I'm in is because of that sin with Bathsheba.
And if I could just go back to that moment and talk to myself and say, don't do it.
I could have saved myself so much pain.
But the reality is life doesn't have a rewind bud.
And so when we find ourselves all the way over here and the consequences of our actions in our own brokenness, well, we can't
go back and undo it, but we can begin the journey of going back home.
And so we're going to watch David make this long walk home.
So where we left off, if you weren't with us, David's own son has orchestrated a coup of rebellion.
He's taken over the city of Jerusalem.
David has fled for his life with a small group of men.
And now the entire nation has turned against King David, the hero of the story.
And so here's
where we find it.
2nd Samuel chapter 18 verse 1, David's going to fight for his life.
So David musters the men who are with him and appoints over them, commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds.
David sent out his troops a third under the command of Joab, a third under Joab's brother Abishai, son of Zeruhai, and a third under Itai to get tight.
And the king told the troops, I myself will surely march out with you.
But the men said, you must not go out.
If we are forced to flee,
They won't care about us.
Even if half of us die, they won't care.
But you're worth 10,000 of us.
It would be better now for you to give us support from the city."
The king answered, I will do whatever seems best to you.
So the king stood beside the gate while all his men marched out in units of hundreds and thousands.
And the king commanded Joab and Abishai in a tie, be gentle with the young man Absom for my sake.
and all the troops heard the king giving orders concerning the Absalom to each of the commanders.
What's happening, David has fled from Jerusalem and he's gathered together his troops.
He's gonna divide them into three separate groups and hope for the best.
They're outnumbered, they're outgunned, but this is a fierce fighting force.
And David wants to go with this man, but it's been like David, listen, if you die,
We're all dead.
You're worth 10,000 of us.
Stay in the city.
That's the best thing you can do as king.
And David yields.
He listens to his men.
He stays in the city.
But as they're marching out, he stands at that gate and watches all the soldiers marching for him.
And every single one of those soldiers and commanders hears David say, please be gentle with my son, Absalom.
You see, even though Absalom is a murder and a rapist and a traitor,
He's still David's son, and this is the heart of the Father.
Now, the battle is only two verses of this entire chapter.
It's almost like it's not even important, but they battle in a force of Ephraim.
David's men know it needs to be an environment where we're outnumbered.
Well, there's lots of trees in places to hide, in places to trip up, and 20,000 people die in this battle, and David's men are successful in beating a much larger force, and the person who leaves the rebellion
Well, verse nine, here's what happened to Absalom.
Now, Absalom happened to meet David.
David's men there, and he was riding his mule.
And as the mule went under the thick branches of a large oak, Absalom's hair got caught in the tree.
And he was left hanging in mid-air while the mule was riding, kept on going.
I mean, one of the men saw what had happened.
He told you up, I just saw Absalom hanging in an oak tree.
The job said to the man, who told you this?
What?
You saw him?
Why didn't you strike him?
to the ground right there.
Then I would have given you 10 shekels of silver and a warrior's belt."
But the man replied, even if a thousand shekels were weighed out into my hands, I would not lay a hand on the king's son.
In our hearing, the king commanded you and Abishai, Enitai, protect the young man Absalom for my sake.
And if I had put my life in jeopardy and nothing is hidden from the king, you would have kept your distance from me."
Joab said,
I'm not going to wait like this for you."
So he took three javelins in his hand and plunged them into Absalom's heart while Absalom was still alive in the oak tree.
And 10 of Job's armor bears surrounded Absalom, struck him and killed him.
Then Job sounded the trumpet and the troops stopped pursuing Israel for Job halted them.
And they took Absalom and threw him into a big pit in the forest and piled up a large heap of rocks over him.
Meanwhile, all the Israelites fled to their homes.
Now during his lifetime, Absalom had taken a pillar and erected it in the Kings Valley as a monument to himself.
For he thought, I have no son to carry on the memory of my name.
And he named the pillar after himself.
And it's called Absalom's monument to this day.
Wow, what an end for Absalom.
The son of David.
noted for his good looks and his great charisma, and most of all, his great hair.
Absolom had great hair.
Remember we read every year he cut his hair and it weighed five pounds?
That's a lot of hair.
And what we see is this hair is a symbol of his pride of what people saw in him and what he saw in himself.
It's the same description used of Saul, except it wasn't Saul's hair.
It was the fact that he was a head taller than every other person.
And these physical attributes were things that each of these men took pride in.
And what other people looked at and said, now, that is a king.
Look how tall he is.
Look how good his hair is.
We could follow someone like that, but that pride can lead to your downfall because God doesn't look at the outside of a person.
He looks at the inside of a person.
And David is the only king after God's own heart.
You see, Abslam,
wasn't the only person that built a monument in his own honor.
Saul also did that.
What's going on for people who build monuments in their own honor?
Well, you have this deep sense of insecurity in Saul.
We see it.
Then in time, someone else gets the attention.
It's not him.
He gets aggravated.
He tries to kill David because of jealousy.
We see Absalom fighting for his right as the king's oldest son to be king, but he's not getting the credit and it's not just pride.
It's also
this sense of hurt, Absalom hurt that his dad didn't reconnect with him, didn't discipline his brother and didn't do all this stuff.
And so on the outside, Absalom is charismatic and good looking and a powerful leader who looks like a king, but inside he's deeply driven by pride and insecurity and hurt.
And this for us should be a cautionary tale.
Like maybe God has gifted you in a powerful way.
And you've never thought about the dark side of
those gifts that may be pride and ambition is driving you in a way that it shouldn't, which is dangerous for your soul and the people around you, and that unprocessed, hurt, has led you to go and do some things that are sort of under the radar.
You've justified them, you feel good about them, and it's producing something new.
Like, is there a hurt in your life right now that you just push down?
Is there something in you that says, why won't people recognize the gift I bring
to this church or my company.
My family, why can't I be the leader?
And what is that toxic combination of hurt and security and pride?
What is it produced in you?
What it produces in Absalom is this moment where he's hanging from his hair at an oak tree in the middle of the battle where 20,000 people died and he's the cause of all of it.
He's just hanging there.
I mean, what an image.
Hanging by his own hair, the symbol of his own pride and a soldier sees him
But it doesn't touch him because he knows, I remember David said, whatever you do, be merciful to my son.
So he tells Job, and Job's like, you should have told him.
And the guy's like, if I told, if I would have killed him, you would turn me in.
I mean, everyone knows Job is a very shrewd general, very unscrupulous in some ways.
And so Job's like, I'm gonna do it myself.
Now notice that Job, when he sees Abslam, he's not gonna kill him quickly.
He's gonna kill him slowly.
He takes three.
Job was three small spears and sticks them.
in the heart, the Hebrew word is in his center, his core.
Now, he's going to stab them one by one because he wants this man who's caused so much turmoil to suffer.
And then he gets his 10 arm of air, so strike him down and kill him.
And he wants to make sure that Absalom's name goes down in infamy.
So he buries him in a nameless grave and puts a pile of rocks over him.
And this is the end of the story of Absalom, a cautionary tale.
Now, Joab has to send a message back to David that they have won the victory and that Absalom is dead.
And back in the day, he couldn't just send a text, hey, we won, and by the way, no, they had to send couriers, they had to send a runner.
So a runner would get a message, they had to run for hours and hours and hours to get to the city to say, here's the news.
And so the son of Zadok says, I want to be the one to run.
And Joab's like, no, I'm not going to have you run because
There's good news, and there's bad news, and the king's not gonna take the bad news really well.
So he sends a Kushite, another runner, and the runner starts running.
But then the son of Zadok, IMS, says, no, no, please let me run, please let me run.
And Joe maybe thought, well, you know, the other guy got a head start, you're gonna get their second, no big deal.
But him is faster than the other guy.
He takes a shortcut, he gets there first, and he's running as fast as he can.
And David's on the city wall watching, and he sees, oh, that's Zadok's son.
So it has to be good news.
They only send people, I know, if it's really good news.
Hey, man, let's get there.
Hey, David, David, your enemies have been defeated.
You've won the battle.
David's next question.
How is my son, Absalom?
Now, him is knows what happened to his son, Absalom.
He knows he got killed and put in the rocks, but he doesn't have the heart to say.
So he says, well, you know, I saw a pile of rocks.
I don't really know what that was.
And while he's making excuses, you know, sometimes it's just hard to tell someone the truth.
You know what I'm talking about?
You're in the moment, full, honest people in here.
It's hard to be the bearer of bad news.
And he doesn't want to say it.
And the Christian comes there and he shows up and now David looks at him and asks him this question, verse 32.
What happened to my son, Absalom, the king says, is the young man Absalom safe?
The Christian replies, may the enemies of my Lord, the king and all who rise up to harm you be like that young man.
And the king was shaken and he went up to the room
over the gateway and wept.
And as he went, he said, oh, my son, Absalom.
My son, my son, Absalom.
Only I had died instead of you.
Oh, Absalom, my son, my son.
Here we see the humanity of a father.
For the king, it's a sad triumph.
For the father, there's this brokenness
Five times, he just cries out, my son, my son, absent, my son, my son, all the soldiers, everyone in the city is hearing David mourn out loud in front of everybody.
And there's something that David models here that's good for us to emulate, and that's this.
It's good for us in moments of sadness and grief.
It's good for us as people to mourn.
Jesus said, blessed are those
who mourn, for they will be comforted.
David himself would write, blessed are those who are broken hearted, those who are crushed in spirit, because God draws near to those who are sad, who are suffering.
And sometimes in life, if I'm just gonna be honest, we see things that should make us sad, but we just move on.
And sometimes it's good for us to just stop and say, we wanna take a moment to grieve, because if we don't take a moment to grieve, that grief is gonna come out of us in ways that we won't be proud of, in ways that aren't healthy.
And so I want us just to take a moment to process all that we've seen in just the last 10 days.
I mean, our eyes are glued to our devices as we watch the assassination of a public figure like Charlie Kirk, and we watch it over and over again.
No matter what you think about all those events, do you feel the pain and sorrow for a woman who won't have a husband anymore, for two little children who won't ever see daddy come home?
Again, we see a woman stabbed on a train who has a family who loves her, who will never see her face.
Again, another school shooting.
In this week, three police officers ambushed and killed who are never gonna come back home
All these things that we see over and over again.
And do we ever take a moment in the presence of God to say, God, that's so sad.
I want to grieve for those families, for those people.
And maybe it's not any of those things this week that you need to grieve.
Maybe it's something in your own life because some of you lost a loved one this week.
Some of you went to the doctor this week and you got a diagnosis.
And now you're looking at your whole life
in a different way through a different lens and those losses, they need to be grief.
So I'm just gonna give us a moment of quiet.
I'm gonna ask you to close your eyes and just in the middle of this service, I'm gonna ask you just to get in the presence of God and invite God into the middle of that pain, that suffering, that sadness and allow his comfort and his peace to wash over your mind and to wash over your heart.
Let's take a moment of silence, a moment of quiet right now.
Jesus, we thank you that when we shed tears and when we feel pain and sadness, you also feel that pain and sadness.
You are a man of suffering.
You bear and not just the weight of our sin, but of our sorrow and our shame.
And so Jesus, we invite you into that space of our own private suffering and we mourn for those things that we've seen.
for wives, and husbands, and children, and parents who've lost loved ones.
And God, we pray that you and still in us the hope of the gospel and the power of the resurrection in moments like this.
We pray this in Jesus' name.
Amen.
David teaches us something very valuable about pausing degree.
But David also gets stuck
in his grief.
You see, it's good to grieve, but it's not good to let grief overwhelm you so that you don't know how to find your way out.
And David is grieving so much about his son that it's affecting everyone that's in the city.
And watch what a good friend does to help David realign what to do with that grief that has overcome his own heart.
Job is told, the king is weeping and mourning for Absalom.
And for the whole army, that victory that day was turned in the morning, because on that day, the troops heard it said, the king is grieving for his son.
And the men stole into the city that day as men steal and who are ashamed when they flee from battle.
The king covered his face and cried aloud, oh, my son, Absalom, oh, Absalom, my son, my son.
And then Job went into the house to the king and said, today you have humiliated all your men.
who've just saved your life and the lives of your sons and daughters and the lives of your wives and concubines.
You love those who hate you and hate those who love you.
And you have made it clear today that the commanders and their men mean nothing to you.
I see that you would be pleased if Absom were alive today and all of us were dead.
Now go out and encourage your men.
I swear by the Lord that if you do not go, not a man will be left with you by nightfall.
and this will be worse for you than all the calamities that have come on you from your youth until now."
So the king got up, took his seat in the gateway, and when the men were told the king is sitting in the gateway, they all came before him.
Meanwhile, the Israelites had fled to their homes.
What's happening?
David is grieving the loss of his son, but he's grieving so loud that all the soldiers that come back from the victory, all they can hear is this king wailing
My son, Absalom, my son, my son.
And instead of walking home as victorious, like the underdogs who fought for their king and won, their heads are down.
Like their cowards, like they were scared and they're losing heart.
And Joab sees his king lost in sorrow, lost in emotion.
And he needs to give him a wake up.
He walks in, he's like, David, David, pay attention.
I understand, you're sad, I understand, you lost yourself, but listen, it feels like to all of us that you would rather, all of us were dead in Absalom was alive.
They just risked their lives for you, these men.
And you need to go out there and you need to encourage them because they fought for you.
So snap out of it.
And how many of you know that we need a friend like that some days?
Like, I don't know about you, but maybe in the last couple of weeks, maybe some of you had a good enough friend to walk up to you and say,
Are you okay?
Because you look off.
That thing you posted?
That was off.
That sense of anger you have on your face?
That feels off for you.
That overwhelming sense of sadness you're carrying with you all the time.
It feels off.
Can I help you not get lost in the emotion of this moment or the situation?
And can I remind you of who you are and who you serve?
And sometimes we need a good friend.
to give us a little, to help us get back on track.
And David listens to Joab, and David goes out and honors his men and their sacrifice.
And that's the beautiful thing I love about David.
He's willing to yield his feelings and thoughts to people who might have a different perspective than him.
And in this moment, he leads his people.
Now, David has just won a victory.
Remember, he was,
exiled from his kingdom, the coup happened.
He fought and overwhelmed with a bigger force than him and won, and now he's gonna go back and be king.
But you can't just march back into Jerusalem.
No, he's gotta go through this long process of reconciliation.
And so he's still far away from Jerusalem.
And now watch what happens as he begins the conversation to come back to be the king.
Verse nine, throughout the tribes of Israel, all the people were arguing among themselves, saying,
The king delivered us from the hand of our enemies.
He's the one who rescued us from the land of the Philistines.
But now he's fled the country to escape from Absalom.
And Absalom, who he anointed to rule over us, has died in battle.
So why do you say nothing about bringing the king back?
This is the 10 tribes of Israel, the northern tribes of Israel, David's from the tribe of Judah.
And there's all this talk like, hey, we picked Absalom over David.
How did that happen?
You see they're arguing back and forth.
This whole thing happened because of division within a nation, within people.
Maybe it started kind of harmlessly.
I don't know.
Do you think David's like a good king, like as good as he was?
I think he's lost his touch.
He's lost his edge.
And frankly, Absalom's pretty good looking.
He pretty care his magic.
He made a lot of promises.
So maybe, maybe David's like past his prime.
Maybe we should pick Absalom.
You know, all these divisions start with little conversations like that.
where people say, no, don't quote me on this, but I heard.
And it's really slander and it's really completely destructive to the people of God, but it's sort of the accepted sin.
And now there's all this other conversation.
Well, you know, we rejected David, but now Absalom is dead.
So we probably need to ask David back.
This is the fickleness of people, right?
And so this conversation is going on with Israel.
Now, word comes to David that this whole conversation's happening.
Look at me in verse 11.
Then King David sent this message to Zadok and Abiathar, the priests, asked the elders of Judah, why should you be the last to bring the king back to his palace, since what is being said throughout Israel has reached the king at his quarters?
You were my relatives, my own flesh and blood, so why should you be the last to bring back the king?
And he said to a master, are you not my flesh and blood?
May God deal with me, be it ever so severely, if you're not the commander of my army, for life in the place of Joab.
and he won over the hearts of the men of Judah so that they were of one mind.
And they sent word to the king of return and all your men.
What's happening?
You have a nation divided.
You have a civil war that's just occurred.
And now the 10 tribes that were against David said, let's bring him back.
But David's like, first of all, my own tribe, Judah has to ask me to come back.
He's only going to come back if he's invited to come back.
He's not going to storm back in.
David's holding his kingdom very loosely.
And so he appeals to his own people, Judah.
Am I not your flesh and blood?
Jerusalem's the capital city of this area.
And wasn't I the one who led you and he appeals to their anxieties?
Don't be the last tribe to invite me back, but be the first tribe.
And everyone gets together like, you know what?
You're right.
Well, I don't know why we picked Absalom over David anyway.
And we want to be the ones that invite him back.
And so he gets invited back into Jerusalem.
And so we're going to watch David make this
Long walk home.
This long road.
Remember, it was just a few weeks early, he was walking out of the city.
And that was he walking out of the city.
People were cursing at him and throwing stones and rocks at him.
And people were slandering him and manipulating him.
And now he's going to turn around.
He's going to walk back.
And he's going to walk back past all those same characters.
So the first person he meets on the way back is a man named Shimeon.
He was the guy that was throwing rocks and dirt and cursing to David on the way out.
And he falls down right in front of David on his face and he begs for his life.
Have mercy on me, I sin, I shouldn't have said it.
And Abishai, he's right hand guy said, can I cut off his head?
That's what he said on the way out.
Can I cut off his guy's head?
Same thing, Abishai is very consistent.
Let me cut off his head.
And David wouldn't have been wrong to say, yeah, it's time now.
Now that I'm one, now that I have total control, I can use this moment
vindicate myself, cut off his head, make an example of him.
But you know what David says?
No one's going to die today.
You see, he's not interested in vengeance.
He's interested in this very fragile nation being reunited back together again, and he knows that his
sin and the rebellion.
And the exile has created so much division within the nation, within the tribes, that he's going to have to wisely navigate.
So he says, Shimea is not going to die.
Then he takes a few more steps and he sees this guy, Ziba, who manipulated David and a man named Mephibosheth, who was a steward of Ziba, or was Ziba was his steward.
And Ziba on the way out lied and said, Mephibosheth has sold you out, but the reality is, Mephibosheth comes and he's got
His nails haven't been trimmed, his beard hasn't been shaved, he hasn't changed his clothes.
He's been mourning.
He said, I've been mourning every day since you've been gone.
I did not betray you, but he, my servant betrayed me and you gave him all my property.
And I don't even need it back.
I just need you to know I've never been disloyal to you.
And David has a chance in this moment for perfect justice to say, is he who you lied?
So all the stuff belongs to him and I'm throwing you in jail, but he does what is pragmatic.
He says, I'm gonna split it 50-50.
Because again, he needs Ziba and Saul's family to be supportive, to bring the kingdom back together.
And he says to him, Massa, the general for Absalom who led the rebellion, I'm gonna make you the general of our army over Joab.
And you're like, why is he doing this?
Because he wants every soldier to know that was a part of the rebellion, part of the coup.
I'm not gonna kill anyone.
Everything's forgiven.
And this type of leadership,
Reminds me of one of America's greatest presidents, a man named Abraham Lincoln, who after the Civil War, when Union leaders were saying, we need to execute some of these generals, we need to kill some of these soldiers, we need to imprison people, and Abraham Lincoln says, no one else is gonna die.
We had brothers fighting against brothers, and a lot of blood was shed, but we need to bring the nation back together again, because a house divided against itself cannot stand.
Aren't you grateful for leaders like that?
And David demonstrates this in this moment.
Now, where did Abraham Lincoln get that line?
A house divided against itself cannot stand.
He got it from Jesus.
And Jesus was using that sentence to describe the fact that Satan's own army, his demonic forces, the way the evil works in the world is not divided against itself.
They're unified to kill and steal and destroy
against God's people.
And Jesus is making a powerful point if Satan's own kingdom is not divided, why should God's house be divided?
Why would we allow an enemy to be unified against us and us to be divided against ourselves?
And David shows us, again, this very powerful lesson.
The last thing that we see in this chapter is David meets a guy named Barzilla.
This is the man who is 80 years old who provided all this provision for David and his army.
And he says to Brazil, I want you to come back to Jerusalem, sit at my table.
I'll feed you for the rest of my life.
You'll be honored among my leaders.
And he's like, I'm an old man.
I didn't do this for reward, but you can take my son.
He can sit at your table.
And you watch this beautiful process of David honoring his friends and not punishing his enemies as he brings unity back to the people of God.
And so this
3,000 year old story has some relevance to us today.
I want to talk about just three of these ideas.
Here's the first one.
It's never too late to come home.
No matter how far away you wandered, no matter how long you've been there in your doubt, in your sin, in your shame, in your addiction, in your brokenness, in your pride, in your numbness, whatever it is, there's always a way back.
And the way back is not to rewind and make what you said and did go away because life does not have a rewind
remote, it's just to go through the process and know you are never too far.
So David would later write this Psalm about how we walk through difficult circumstances.
He would write in Psalm 34, his anger, that's God's anger, lasts only a moment, but his favor lasts a lifetime.
Weeping may stay for the night, but rejoicing comes in the morning.
Aren't you grateful for that?
That God's anger is just for a moment.
The consequence for our sin, just for a moment.
His rebuke, just for a moment.
He hurts us to heal us, to draw us back.
But when we go to sleep in tears and anger, and we wake up in the morning, it's like resurrection.
God can make all things new.
He's done it in my life.
I know he's done it in your life.
And this is the beautiful thing about the nature of God.
When we sin.
There are consequences, even when forgiveness comes, but those consequences don't last forever.
Here's how Moses would write about the faithfulness of God.
Lord, through all the generations, you have been our home.
Think about that powerful concept.
Moses and David are both like, no matter what happens in life, highest, highest, lowest, lowest wins and losses, no matter what happens in your life, God is always home for you.
I don't know if anyone here has teenagers or 20 something, but if you have kids that are driving and kids that stay out late, one of the ways is a parent, you want to always let your kids know their welcome is to keep the light on.
And always say no matter what time you come, there's always food at the table.
You're always welcome at the table.
God's like that.
And you wander away.
You do your own thing.
He always leaves the light on and there's always a seat at the table because there's something about coming home, the sense of identity.
I belong here.
The sense of purpose.
This is my father.
These are my people.
This is my family.
And this is what God has called in the Bible.
He has called the father and he invites us to his table.
And so it's never too late to come home.
Second idea, coming home requires repairing relationships.
David has a lot to repair, even though he's been this far away.
And even though he walks back and starts to restore the nation, there's a lot, there's a mess.
I don't know if you've ever experienced a break-in where you come into your house and stuff is everywhere and you're trying to figure out what's gone, what's missing, what's broken, how do I put it back together?
Maybe it was a storm or a flood, all the stuff is everywhere.
You're like, this is a mess.
Yeah, and David's gonna walk back into Jerusalem and it's an absolute mess.
There's still division, there's a rebellion that's gonna come in the next chapter as people like, I don't want him to be king and he already messed up and I think this and I think that and all that stuff is going on.
In this moment, he's gonna have to have difficult conversations with Joab, his general.
He has to have a difficult conversation with Ziba and Shimea.
He's gonna have to have difficult conversations with the nation of Judah and the nations of the tribes of Israel.
And there's gonna be the moments where he confronts, where he apologizes, moments where he asks for forgiveness and extends forgiveness, moments of restoration.
This is gonna be difficult and deep and very hard work.
It's one thing to come home and say, God's forgiven me, and I'm so free, but all the other relationships of your life are gonna need this repair.
And Jesus would say this about this difficult work of peacemaking.
Blessed are the peacemakers, for they will be called the children of God.
You know, it's so much easier to sweep it under the rug.
It's so much easier to pretend like it was never an issue.
All's forgiven, let's forget, let's move on.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
We see David going through each one of these conversations with people trying to bring repair and peace and well, this week has been one of those challenges.
Maybe you found yourself between someone on your family over here and someone in your family here and you're in the middle and you're trying to get them not to hate each other or judge each other or cancel each other and you're like, guys, and then you get attacked from both sides and Jesus would say to you, if you're that peacemaker, blessed are you if you're making peace in the family of God because you will be called the son or daughter of God in that process.
Can I talk to you just for a moment as your pastor?
I'm gonna say that we've seen a lot in these last 10 days and it's sad and can make you angry and can be heartbreaking, but one of the saddest things for me is watching the way that Christians have treated other Christians.
On social media, in their own small groups and their own families, I've had so many conversations with people like I can't talk to my own family
I can't talk to this person in my group and he said this and she said that and this person has judged me or said this and people are so free to say what they think about people without talking to people.
I want to say this, don't be the person who talks about people without talking to them first because this is what Satan loves to do.
We talked last week about this quiet revival that's stirring across this nation.
People are hungry for hope.
They're looking for God.
And if you were saying, how would you stop it?
I know.
I get Christians to fight among themselves.
I get them to say hateful things to each other online.
I get them to cancel each other and not talk.
And then people would look on and go, if that's Christianity, no, thank you.
I'm looking for something that's right and true.
And so it's not enough just to say, it's the truth, and I said it.
Now, if you didn't say it like Jesus said it, and you're a follower of Jesus, then you need to repent and say, God, I've actually been divisive this week in the words, in the tone, in the rhetoric, and I've judged hundreds, thousands, millions of people who see things this way, or this way, and God, I want to repent for that because Jesus
your prayers that we might be once, so that the world will know that you sent me.
We wanna answer the prayer of Jesus.
We wanna speak the truth in love.
Kindness is not softness.
Kindness is Christ's likeness.
And so how do we speak into the mess, into the darkness with the power and conviction of who Jesus is and what he's done?
Because he is our savior.
Amen church?
This is who he is.
And listen.
He's given us this mission.
He has committed to us the message of reconciliation.
What he did between us and God, removing the sin, the divide.
Now he invites us to do with other people.
These divides between people.
And here's the challenge with that.
Some people are hard to love.
If you have someone in your life who's hard to love, raise your hand.
If they're next, you don't look at them.
Just look straight ahead.
Listen, people are hard to love.
And here's what Jesus said about the last day.
He says, evil is gonna increase more and more and more.
It's gonna increase so much.
Listen to this, that the love of most people's hearts will grow cold.
We're watching that right now.
We're watching evil increase and love grow cold.
But in this role as ambassadors of Jesus, what compels us?
Well, Paul says this, it's Christ love that compels us.
So what we need in this moment is to ask Jesus this question.
Jesus has the evil I've seen all around me made by love for other people to grow cold.
Has my desire to be right or convince people of my view?
Has it been so strong that I've resorted to judgment and to canceling people?
And is there a relationship I need to pursue?
I mean, maybe.
The most powerful thing you'll do this week is to pursue a relationship that you know that was broken by something you said or did to someone that you love that's the follower of Jesus.
We don't want to be ignorant of the schemes of the enemy to divide us because Satan fears a united church, people who know and love God's word and God's people and who can walk toward the mess and toward the darkness and share and shine the light of Christ.
Amen church, that's who we are and that
That has been our mission for 2,000 years.
And so coming home requires a lot of work, a lot of repair.
Third idea, coming home requires a new way to live.
You can't go back, you can't undo it, you can't rewind it like it never happened, but you can't go forward.
And that means new habits, a new sense of humility, a new sense of submission.
David is going to be a king for years to come, but the way he leads is going to be different, it's going to be a new normal.
after he goes through this attempted coup and this rebellion.
So this coming home story, well, this isn't the only coming home story in the Bible.
In fact, the most famous coming home story isn't in the book of 2 Samuel.
It was written by a man named Luke who interviewed all of Jesus' disciples and he writes, what is Jesus'
most well-known story.
It's a story of coming home.
Jesus tells the story to a group of religious people and a group of very non-religious people to remind them who their father is like.
Here's the story.
There was a man who had two sons.
The younger one said to his father, Father, give me my share of the estate.
So he divided his property between them.
And not long after that, the younger son got together all that he had and set off for a distant country, and there he squandered his wealth in wild living.
He spent everything.
There was a severe famine in that whole country, and he began to be in need.
So he went and hired himself out as the citizen of that country, who sent him into the fields to feed pigs.
And he longed to fill his stomach with the paws of the pigs reading, but no one gave him anything.
And when he came to his senses,
He said, how many of my father's hired servants have food to spare, and here I'm starving to death.
I will set out and go back to my father and say to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and against you, and I am no longer worthy to be called your son.
Make me like one of your hired servants.
So he got up and went to his father.
But while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and filled with compassion for him, he ran to his son.
He threw his arms around him and kissed him.
The son said to the Father, Father, I've sinned against heaven and against you.
I'm no longer worthy to be called your son.
But the Father said to the servants, quick, bring the best robe and put it on him.
Put a ring in his finger and sandals on his feet.
Bring the fat and calf and kill it.
Let's have a feast and celebrate.
For this son of mine was dead and is alive again.
He was lost and is found.
This is the story of us.
Isn't it good to know that our Father is waiting for us?
Listen, the only time in the Bible you will ever read that God ran is in this story.
God doesn't run away from anything, but He runs toward us in our mess as we walk that long road home.
And the Bible is filled with stories like this, of people coming home.
I mean, if you look
Through John's gospel, we read this last weekend.
John, at the end of his gospel, the last sentence, he says this, Jesus did so many other things that if every one of them were written down, I suppose that even the whole world would not have room for the books that would be written.
John's like, man, there were so many times I saw people so far away from Jesus and they somehow found their way back and I can't even remember them all.
And then the imagination of how many other stories would be written.
And in the last 40 years of Calvary, in this first generation, there are so many comeback stories.
And I want to read to you one of those comeback stories.
It's a ministry that this church has been a part of for 30 years.
It's the oldest ministry of Calvary Chapel outside of our church service.
It's a ministry called Calvary House.
It started with three men struggling with drug and alcohol addiction and a double wide trailer.
And now we've watched God do incredible things in the lives of men.
And listen, I don't know if you know this or not,
but we offer free to any people in Broward County, men and women, a one-year residential program where they can find freedom from their addiction and grow as disciples of Jesus Christ.
And listen, we've had 890 graduates of that program.
890 men and women who have graduated from that program and listen, three years post-graduation, 84% of them are still drug and alcohol free and following Jesus.
And this is beyond because we know
that the power of Jesus Christ can change someone's life.
So I want you to see what it looks like on the faces of the men and women who come through this program.
Just look at the eyes and just watch what life transformation looks like when someone goes from darkness to light.
You can see it in their eyes.
And as you see these pictures, maybe you'll think of your story.
What has Jesus done?
for you to take that look and bring transformation.
Now listen, if you want to hear or experience more, I want to invite you.
Next Saturday at 10 o'clock, if you've never seen a Calvary House graduation, we're going to gather in the halls and we're going to listen to stories of 12 men and three women who are going to graduate the program after a year of discipleship.
You want to hear incredible stories of grace come on Saturday at 10 o'clock because it will blow your mind.
But there's nothing like one story to summarize all of them.
The story of a man named Anthony.
My name is Anthony and I spent 16 years lost in drug addiction.
My journey as a drug addict was not the typical one.
I didn't come from a broken home.
I was not abused.
I didn't come from a family with a history of drug addiction.
For me, it was quite the opposite.
I grew up in a loving Christian home.
I was the youngest of seven kids and I always felt accepted and cared for.
My dad was a well respected psychologist and one of my best friends.
And my mom was the oldest child of Billy Graham.
She devoted the best years of her life raising us in God's ways.
But even with all of those privileges that came with growing up in a famous family who loved me, I chose my own path and my life spiraled completely out of control.
I checked myself in a numerous rehab programs, but nothing worked, and nothing worked because I wasn't ready.
I was still in denial that I had a problem until I finally hit rock bottom and God led me to Calvary House, and that's when things started to change.
I've always believed that God's office sits at the end of our rope, and I found myself hanging there.
When I walked through the doors of Calvary House, I was utterly lost spiritually, physically, mentally,
emotionally, financially.
My choices and addiction had torn my life apart and hurt the people that I loved most.
I didn't know how to pick up the pieces.
Calvary House met me at my very worst.
They loved me when I felt unlovable and trusted me when I didn't trust myself.
With patience and grace, they helped me to see my desperate need for Jesus.
And without judgment, they gave me a safe space to heal and to be restored.
My road to sobriety and freedom has been a long and winding one.
I've had so much support along the way.
Today, I am married to a beautiful godly woman named Christina.
We could celebrate that.
And listen, and by God's grace, I now serve as the director of Calvary House for Men.
Wow.
But the one who gets all the credit for wearing today is Jesus.
If it weren't for his patient love for me, I'd be dead.
I'm alive today, not because in my darkest despair I held onto Jesus.
Now I'm alive today because in my darkest despair, he never let go of me.
This is why I love the ministry of Calvary House.
Its doors are always open, waiting for prodigals like me to come home, knowing they will find open arms to welcome them, to sit at God's table,
and experience His amazing grace.
This is what God loves to do.
One story of 890 that are part of Calvary House, and we say, God, do it again.
One story of tens of thousands of people who made a decision to come back home, to walk that road of redemption.
And you know, in the book of Isaiah, the people of God,
Well, they said and did stupid things like the people of God often do, and God could have said to them, you made your bed lay in it.
But instead, he says, no, because of your brokenness, because of your mess, I'm going to send my son Jesus Messiah, he's going to come into this mess, and he's going to die to pay your debt, and he's going to bring his redemption.
It's greater than your sin and brokenness, and he's going to give you a new way to live.
And then he says, if those people, this is true, they will rebuild the ancient ruins.
restore the places long devastated.
They will renew the ruined cities that have been devastated for generations.
God is in the business of restoring brokenness, the brokenness in people's lives and family's lives in generations of people's lives.
And I want to show you just a picture of
family day as men and women come to Jesus and they find healing from their bondage and addiction.
Family day is when estranged moms and dads and estranged brothers and sisters and sons and daughters reunite and people who don't have biological families close, find friends that are like families.
And this is what it means to be part of the church, the people who have been redeemed by the blood of the Lamb, the Savior of the world, Jesus Christ.
And if you don't know him today, we want to invite you to come
home.
You know, the hardest part about coming home is always the first step.
When you're all the way over here and you're like, I should have known better.
I should have listened.
I don't know why I followed that guy or I don't know why I got with that girl.
I don't know why I tried those drugs for the first time.
I don't know why I'm trying to prove myself by how much money I can make or how big I can do my business.
And I just, I don't know why I fight so much.
I want my brain can't wrap around these doubts, so many doubts.
Sometimes we can talk ourselves out of going to the one, the only one who can heal us, the only one who can fill that void that we all have in us.
So the hardest part is always that first step.
But once you take that step, and then you take the next step,
You're gonna see your father in heaven who maybe you think is angry at you or ashamed of you or disappointed.
You're gonna see him running toward you to give you a hug, to say welcome home.
You see, some of you need to make that walk today.
In a moment, we're gonna invite you to get a body of your season to walk this way.
And this is gonna seem like a thousand miles to you.
But as you take this step,
God will meet you here at this place.
There is a promise.
Whoever calls on the name of the Lord will be safe.
He will not turn away anyone who is ready and willing to today.
If you're like, I need to come back to God.
Maybe to come for the first time, maybe to come back, has this been a long time.
And to feel his embrace and forgiveness, he wants to take away your shame.
He wants to take the brokenness of your life and give you a greater purpose.
And all of this is an invitation that you could say no to.
But I pray today.
that if you know that God is calling, you don't say no, but you walk this way.
And so we're gonna play a closing song and we're gonna ask you if you wanna start a relationship with God through his son, Jesus.
If you wanna experience the forgiveness of sins, if you wanna repent and say, God, I've done it my way.
Now I wanna do it your way.
This altar is open.
He's inviting you.
And if you're ready to respond with your life, I'm gonna ask you right now, stand up wherever you are and walk this way and come home and watch God meet you and do an incredible work in your life.
If that's you, come now and we will celebrate with all of heaven.
As you come, come on.
I have found a fortune that table has been set.
It's your blood and bond.
The pain is coming from you.
When you took your last breath, you opened.
I told me to be seated.
Now where else would I go?
Cause you took me in, gave me a thanks.
Welcome me over again, over again.
And bring me a seat, gave me your name.
Welcome me over again.
I took me in, gave me a place, welcome me all my get, oh my get, bring me a seat, gave me your neck, welcome me all my get.
Welcome home.
You know, the crazy thing is that before you were ever born, God saw this moment.
He saw the road you would take away from him and maybe all the warnings that people gave you, maybe the things he said, I know I shouldn't be doing this, but I'm going to anyway and he watched you patiently waiting for this moment for you to come back home and here in this moment, we call this the amazing grace of God.
Because he's gonna forgive all of your sins.
He's gonna write your name in his book called The Book of Life.
He's gonna adopt you as a son or a daughter.
And he's gonna take away not just your sin, but he's gonna take away your shame.
And here's the thing, you don't deserve this and need to do why, and need to do any of us.
That's why we call it grace.
This is the undeserved gift of God.
Because after today you get to sit at his table.
You get to be.
part of the family of God.
Now I want you just to turn for a second, and I want you to look.
You are now part of this bigger family.
Turn around.
I want you guys to see your new brothers and sisters.
You are part of the forgiven, redeemed people of God who have experienced His amazing grace, and we celebrate that with you.
And so I want to lead you in a prayer.
You can't go back and undo it, but Jesus can wash it away.
and give you a new hope and a new future.
And so you're about to say the most powerful words that ever come out of your mouth.
You're gonna make your confession to God.
He's gonna forgive your sins.
He's gonna begin to work in your life.
Before we pray this prayer, I just wanna give one more moment for anyone who's out there and you're like stuck in your seat and you're wishing that you were here.
I just wanna give you one more moment.
We're not gonna sing another song, but if you know if your heart is pumping right now and you're gripping your seat and you're just like, man, I should, I should, I should.
Listen, this is the love and patience of God to give you one more moment.
to step into the aisle and come home.
If that's you, just step into the aisle and come.
We don't want you to miss what God wants to do in your life.
Come on, come on.
Church, let's celebrate just what God is doing in the lives of these men and women.
Today is your day.
Today is the day of salvation.
Today is the day of redemption.
This is the mighty love of Jesus poured out on his people.
This is why he came.
This is why he died.
And he's drawing people to himself.
So excited for you.
For those of you who are online or in our VR community, you can pray this with us.
Just say this out loud.
Say this to God.
Lord God, I open my heart and I invite you inside.
Forgive my sin.
Today I repent.
Now fill me with your spirit and I will walk with you all the days of my life.
I pray this in Jesus' name.
Amen.
Amen, guys.
Congratulations.
Welcome to the family of God.
Thanks for listening to today's message.
You know, here at Calvary, we believe a relationship with Jesus changes everything.
And if you've decided to follow Jesus, we'd love for you to text the word believe to 31352, so you can find out what it means to follow Christ.
And to learn more about Calvary and all of our campuses, you're free to visit calvaryftl.org.